# seniorSem
A comparative analysis between KNN (supervised learning) vs. DQN (reinforcement learning) with a malware classification dataset.

In today's digital landscape, cyberattacks increase at an alarmingly unprecedented rate. As businesses and individuals tackle with the ever-growing threat of malicious cyberattacks, the need for precise, accurate malware detection systems necessitates a parallel growth alongside cyberattacks. Today, the staggering increase in cyberattacks leaves organizations vulnerable to data breaches, financial loss, and reputational damage. Instead of the numerous tasks boggling down analysts from truly protecting a network, the introduction of machine learning allows a streamlined approach for modern malware detection.  The research below plans to analyze, compare, and conclude which algorithms and datasets, based on reinforcement and supervised machine learning models, best fit modern cyber protection, for business and consumers alike. Featured datasets include Windows malware executables and ransomware to expand reinforcement model's DQN algorithm and supervised model's KNN algorithm. Malware detection's basic structure includes static and dynamic analysis, part of the way the model will be evaluated, alongside metrics such as the AUC graphs to showcase the qualities to emphasize the strengths and weaknesses between the two algorithms. By utilizing a comparative analysis, the study aims to illuminate the efficacy of different machine learning models for malware detection. The conclusion illuminates KNN’s advantages for static analysis with DQN lacking aspects dedicated to static malware analysis. However, improvements made in DQN can offer fast execution capabilities, despite the clear distinctions between the two algorithms.
